Where does the mind end and the body begin? Body and mind are deeply entangled entities, as we struggle with appearances and autonomy in our relationships and identities. Still, the frame of Cybernetics provides the mind-body relationship with another dimension as society progresses toward the increasingly technological world that author N. Katherine Hayles describes in her 1999 book How we Became Posthuman. It is plausible that one day soon it will be possible to merge human consciousness into a manmade shell, and we will need to address how identity, memories, and bodies change as their link becomes more ambiguous and less permanent. To Hayles, this possibility of what she calls "erasure of embodiment" holds the potential for a horrifying future in which the body is ripped from identity, no longer able to serve as a foundation for the self (Hayles 4). Ridley Scott's 1982 movie Blade Runner is set in one such possible future, where the Tyrell Corporation produces humanlike entities called replicants to perform off-world slave labor. The character of Rachael is introduced to the viewer as a secretary for the head of the Tyrell Corporation, but it is soon revealed that although she has spent her whole life believing she is human, she is a replicant as well. The character Rachael's struggle with self-definition and consent upon learning she is a replicant illustrates how erasure of embodiment leads to a fractured sense of identity and autonomy, as described in Katherine Hayles' How We Became Posthuman.
The posthuman has a disjointed mind-body relationship, and this is the fundamental distinction between a human and posthuman from Hayles' framework. In How we Became Posthuman, Hayles approaches the subject of the posthuman, a cybernetic view of identity, with distrust and caution. She frames her definition in the context of cybernetics, focusing on themes of embodiment and a merging of humans with technological machines through a set of four assumptions. First, she writes that "the posthuman view privileges informational pattern over material instantiation, so that embodiment in a biological substrate is seen as an accident of history rather than an inevitability of life" (Hayles 2). In making this claim, Hayles argues that the posthuman rejects a physical form as necessary to identity; rather, the posthuman would prefer to learn to manipulate its body or to simply live without one. Second, Hayles argues that the posthuman model does not see consciousness as central to identity but as "only a minor sideshow" (Hayles 3). In the posthuman model, then, neither the body nor consciousness are inherent parts of a being. The third assumption in Hayles' definition further speaks to embodiment; she argues that the cybernetic framework naturally views bodies as interchangeable vessels that can be manipulated. Hayles' final assumption, which she calls her most important, states that "the posthuman view configures human being so that it can be seamlessly articulated with intelligent machines" (Hayles 3). This cumulative statement reflects Hayles' conclusion that for posthumans, a cybernetic machine need not necessarily be distinct from an organic organism. This is the basis for what Hayles calls "erasure of embodiment," a construction in which the posthuman view allows for information to serve as the basic form of a being, so its physical form can change entirely without affecting the posthuman itself. 
Rachael's struggle with identity upon learning she is a replicant illustrates Hayles' claim that the erasure of embodiment in the posthuman model is damaging to identity. Hayles describes the posthuman subject as "an amalgam, a collection of heterogeneous components, a material-informational entity whose boundaries undergo continuous construction and reconstruction" (Hayles 3). To Hayles, the posthuman is a fragmented construct more than an individual, and its individual parts fail to come together into an autonomous being. Rachael fits neatly into Hayles' idea of a posthuman, as she is made up of a set of human memories—those of Tyrell's niece—placed in a virtual shell and given a name. In one scene of Blade Runner, Rachael is seen playing the piano, and although she remembers taking lessons, she says of her playing, "I don't know if it's me or Tyrell's niece" (Scott).  Something that had previously felt certain within her sense of identity, the ability to play an instrument, is shaken when Rachael learns that her memories and body have different origins. She possesses the memory of music lessons and the physical ability to play, but she has difficulty understanding how these two differently-sourced memories come together to form an aspect of who she is. This difficulty stems from the erasure of embodiment that Hayles warns against. Damaging even the perceived link between Rachael's mind and body shakes her identity deeply. 
The nature of Rachael's illusion of choice before she learns she is a replicant illustrates Hayles' view that posthumans cannot develop a strong sense of autonomy. Hayles applies to the posthuman the concept of free will as outlined by C.B. Macpherson, writing that "if 'human essence is freedom from the will of others,' the posthuman is 'post' not because it is necessarily unfree but because there is no a priori way to identify a self-will that can be clearly distinguished from an other-will" (Hayles 4). In other words, by combining a set of once-disjointed parts into a single consciousness, one cannot distinguish a single self-governing body. This is a distinct downfall of the posthuman framework, as without an autonomous center of identity, the posthuman cannot have a sense of free will, nor an active role in connection or consent with their own body. In the case of Blade Runner, Rachael's status as a replicant and her knowledge of this fact both serve to harm her autonomy. Rachael was created to serve a particular role as a secretary for the Tyrell Corporation, but she does not realize this on her own. Rachael has access to memories that presumably involve decision making around things like her career path, and these memories give her an artificial sense of autonomy. Eldon Tyrell, the corporation's founder and Rachael's boss, refers to Rachael as an experiment and explains the motivation behind creating this illusion when he says to Deckard, "If we give them the past we create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently we can control them better" (Scott). This quote indicates further how Rachael relies on a sense of embodiment to give her a feeling of humanlike autonomy. Tyrell hoped that allowing her to believe that she is human would make her more content, as if she had chosen the path she was on. As soon as Rachael finds out she is a replicant, she leaves the Tyrell Corporation, upset. Without the security in place from the illusion of embodiment, the signals that Rachael had received from one source, her implanted memories, are in direct conflict with her experience, and this causes her distress. 
Rachael's inability to make decisions after she learns she is a replicant also reflects the lack of autonomy predicted by Hayles. In a later scene between Rachael and Deckard, the film's human protagonist, Deckard initiates a kiss. Rachael pulls away, visibly shaken up and tense, and attempts to leave the room. In response, Deckard grabs her and presses her against a wall, commanding "Say kiss me," to which Rachael replies, "I can't rely on…" (Scott). Rachael's line implies that she no longer feels that she can rely on her own memories or mind to tell her what is right, nor can she trust the body that they have been placed in. Deckard's response to this pause is to repeat himself: "Say kiss me," until she does so (Scott). He tells her to say she wants him, and she says so once and repeats herself at his command. The depiction of consent in this scene is unsettling. Within minutes, Rachael transitions from tangible fear and discomfort to mechanically reciting lines that Deckard supplies to her. Her dilemma of embodiment renders her unable to identify her own self-will within her posthuman form, and she is easily manipulated in a sexual setting. This illustrates an aspect of Hayles' concern; beyond lacking ownership over her own body, Rachael so deeply lacks a connection with her physical form that she feels she cannot rely on herself to make her own choices. Rachael has only the illusion of choice when she doesn't yet know she is a replicant, and when she learns about her past she is unable to find a discernable sense of autonomy within herself.
In Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, Rachael's discovery that she is a replicant brings on the dilemma that Hayles calls "erasure of embodiment," where Rachael's posthuman form harms both her sense of identity and autonomy. The film demonstrates how these struggles can harm an individual's development in the issues of decision-making and self-definition that arise for Rachael. Hayles wrote on the posthuman with these issues in mind, and she directly warns against what might happen as it becomes possible to create beings similar to Blade Runner's replicants. The human identity is grounded strongly in a physical realm, and Hayles contends that the posthuman model as it stands runs the distinct possibility of forgetting this. Blade Runner's Rachael illustrates the frightening potential of a world where embodiment is undervalued, and corrupted ideas around consent and identity are damaging to her. Whether or not the link between mind and body remains as stable as it once was, its interpretation will certainly be vital in characterizing of the future's beings.

As social animals, humans rely on outward appearances as a way to communicate and express our internal identity. This lets us communicate personality and even intentions. While not all human interactions are face to face, we can assume that there is always a person behind every text message, email, or phone call. However, with the advent of technologies such as article-generating software and automated chat bots we begin to question exactly who or what we are interacting with. This is a predicted by Norbert Wiener, author of The Human Use of Human Beings: Cybernetics and Society, as he explores the similarities between humans and intelligent systems. With the possibility of human intelligence being present in a new form, intellectuals such as N. Katherine Hayles, author of How We Became Posthuman, fear that we will begin equating interactions with inorganic computers to real human interaction.  In 1950, Alan Turing attempted to define thought and intelligence of interactions with machinery versus humans by creating the Turing Test.  This test is based upon on the ability of a human subject to distinguish a human and a robot, given a command line interface. While a machine may pass a Turing Test, meaning a human and the machine can create equivalent interactions to that of a human and a human, Hayles and Wiener disagree on whether or not we can equate these two interactions as one. The piece Pollution Robot by Juan Downey, a digital sculptor, exemplifies a Turing Test and creates a lens for us to assess how Wiener prioritizes information and output while Hayles values embodiment and material. By analyzing the interactions with Pollution Robot, we can see how Hayles and Wiener disagree on whether or not the embodiment of information is relevant in relation to an interaction.
 The work Pollution Robot is an example of a Turing Test, as it provides a limited interface for communication paired with the obstruction of the true contents of the body. Traditional Turing Tests are described by Hayles as you, the observer, interacting with both a robot and a human via a command line computer terminal. Based on the responses from each entity, you must determine which is the robot and which is the human (Hayles xi). Created by Alan Turing in 1950, the test serves to deduce whether or not computers have the ability to think like humans, thus "if you cannot tell the intelligent machine from the intelligent human, your failure proves…that machines can think" (Hayles xi). This test assumes that if the outputs received from the robot and human are indistinguishable; the machine has equal intelligence to the human. While Pollution Robot is not exactly the same as a Turing Test, there are still significant similarities. The sculpture itself is simply a person-sized box with a door for entry and exit, a one-way mirror to see out of, and a blow drier to blow hot air on observers (Pollution Robot, Downey). The human interacting cannot see inside the mirror, and thus can only guess what is inside the box. While the piece itself is only made to occupy a person and not a computer, if we assume that the sculpture had the same abilities and reactions as a human operator, we create the question of whether or not the interactions between a human and computer would be the same as that of a human with another human.
Wiener would claim that whether or not a human is operating Pollution Robot is irrelevant, as long as the outputs received are consistent to the inputs given. He views embodiment of information as irrelevant in interactions as long as the intelligence of the system is the same.  To put it succinctly, Wiener believes "…when I give an order to a machine, the situation is not essentially different from … when I give an order to a person… I am aware of the order that has gone out and of the signal of compliance that has come back" (Wiener 16). When the signals received from the machine are the same as that of the human, there is no noticeable difference between the interactions. Of course, when Wiener assumes that the machine and human are of equal intelligence, he also predicts the outputs of the interaction will always be the same. However, this begs the question of if equal output is equal interaction. Wiener believes this to be true, as he claims "To me, personally, the fact that the signal in its intermediate stages has gone through a machine rather than through a person is irrelevant and does not in any case greatly change my relation to the signal" (Wiener 16). In the case of Pollution Robot, the output signals travel from the humans mind to the human body that controls the interface to the outside world. Wiener would equate the human brain to a computer, following his prior assumptions, and thus the intermediate stages do not matter as the signal travels out from the brain to the interface and into the world. 
Hayles believes that there is more to an interaction than simply the outputs received from the interaction. While the foundation of Wiener’s argument is that if a human and computer have equal intelligence, we can equate a human brain with a computer. She believes while the outputs of either occupant of Pollution Robot will be the same; the interaction itself is fundamentally different. Hayles explores the idea that since "… we are essentially information, we can do away with the body" (Hayles 12). She explains how if humans are only their brain, and the body is just a tool, there is no need to have the body at all. Hayles then goes to condemn this by claiming that using abstraction to get rid of the human brain in our equation is a leap too far. She claims while "abstraction is an essential component in all theorizing…" (Hayles 12), we must also understand that the "conceiving of information as a thing separate from the medium instantiating it is a … imaginary act…" (Hayles 13).  Hayles would argue that when the person inside of Pollution Robot turns on the hairdryer a different action is happening rather than when a machine automatically turns it on. Even though the hairdryer still gets turned on, the medium the signal went through is different in the reasoning of Hayles. Just because a machine can pass the Turing Test or trick an observer of the Pollution Robot does not mean it is necessary capable of human thought. Hayles claims embodiment clarifies how "thought is a much broader cognitive function depending for its specificities on the embodied form enacting it" (Hayles xiv), therefore there is more to a signal than just the raw information sent out. The medium in which the information is transmitted and received can play a role just as important as the content of the signal itself.
While not a traditional Turing Test, Pollution Robot provides an interesting way to evaluate signals exchanged through various mediums and the embodiment of information. We can use this piece to see how Hayles and Wiener disagree on the separation of information from the material it is communicated through. Wiener would likely feel that whether a human or a robot is inside the Pollution Robot is irrelevant when comparing the interactions, as the medium of a signal does not impact its meaning. Following the assumption that equal intelligence between human and the machine result in identical and equivalent. However, Hayles believes there is more to interactions than simply the outcome. She argues that embodiment of information is not something that can be easily generalized, and the transfer of a signal from brain to body to interface cannot factor out the middle steps. While Wiener and Hayles agree on many aspects of cybernetics, even those relating somewhat to embodiment and information transfer, Pollution Robot provides an interesting way to see a specific area in which they strongly disagree with each other. As our society moves closer and closer to a future where software can 'think' in very human ways, the very meaning of human thought is up for debate. Wiener would argue that the output of an interaction is the most significant aspect; and Hayles would argue that human thought is more nuanced than simply one outcome over another. Whether or not the human brain is equivalent to a computer of equal intelligence, or if information can be disembodied entirely, Wiener and Hayles each have a unique take on how machines interact with us, and Pollution Robot gives us the opportunity to further investigate this variation of ideas.

Obedience to Authority by Stanley Milgram is a gripping account of a psychological
experiment on obedience, one that is now considered a modern classic. The 1963 experiment,
undertaken with a population of participants from Connecticut, outlines the extent that an adult will
follow orders. In the experiment, a volunteer assumes the role of a teacher and a pre-designated actor
assumes the role of a learner in which the teacher is to administer electric shocks, which aren’t actually
real, of increasing magnitude with every wrong answer that the learner gives in response to a memory
test. Hilary Bok, a philosopher, in her 1996 paper, "Acting Without Choosing", attempts to explain
Milgram’s subjects’ behaviours with a theory of a "decisional conflict" - a struggle to decide between
obeying and disobeying (Bok 178). Milgram’s main claim from his research is that a person will obey
an authoritative figure’s orders in high pressure situation, even if the orders cause direct harm to other
people because they transition into an "agentic state" - a state where a person acts as an agent to
someone else’s commands (Milgram 133). Bok presents that her argument about a decisional conflict
is within oneself and does not mention any external pressures, however in the case of Milgram’s
experiment there is also an authoritative figure present that imposes an additional pressure which
influences subjects’ decisions. Bok’s theory seems to make sense in explaining Milgram’s results but
we risk hindering our understanding of how her theory actually applies to Milgram’s subjects if we
don’t fully explore its limitations. I will argue that because of this external authoritative pressure,
Bok’s decisional conflict theory provides a limited view on the subjects’ decision-making process as
the additional pressure either aids to keep subjects in a decisional conflict or acts as the breaking point
for subjects to snap out of it.
To begin with, Bok’s definition of her decisional conflict theory focuses on one’s internal
thought process to make decisions and doesn’t mention any external pressures. She refers to a
decisional conflict as a "situation in which [one] has reasons for performing several different and
incompatible courses of action" where "incompatible courses of action" refers to actions that cannot
be done simultaneously (Bok 178). In a broader sense, what her definition means is a scenario, both in
the real world and in Milgram’s experiment, where one is faced with many different choices that they
find it difficult to come to a conclusive decision. The reasons for why one may find such a decision
difficult may vary from a sense of moral obligation, as is seen in Milgram’s experiment, or simply
what Bok describes as an absence of desire to make a decision in the first place (Bok 177), and this
notion is presented in Bok’s real-world examples of her theory. She applies her theory to multiple real
world examples, of which two are "cleaning [ones] room" and deciding "whether or not to give notice"
to quit one’s job (Bok 177). However, because Bok focuses solely on one’s self and their thought
processes as in both the examples the decision makers are in solitude, she neglects to refer to any
outside influence of one’s decisions. Even while applying her theory to Milgram’s experiment, Bok
focuses on the individual subject rather than the experimenter. She claims that subjects were
"unwilling to look beyond … [and] might have decided to disobey the experimenter. Because they did
not, they continued to obey him, despite the conflict between their actions and their moral convictions."
(Bok 181) The diction and phrasing Bok uses is very directed at the subjects themselves and she draws
conclusions from her points without fully analysing the context of the environment that the subjects
were in. In Milgram’s experiment subjects have to decide very quickly if they want to keep shocking
the learner but in Bok’s two real world examples there is no rush to come to a decision, as one has
much more time to decide whether or not to fold their laundry now or later in the evening and similarly
to quit their job now or at the end of the month. As is seen therefore, Bok’s theory focuses much more
on the inward thought process of a decisional conflict and does not fully address any external pressures
that may influence one’s decision.
Looking at the transcript data as well as numerical data from Milgram’s experiment it seems
that the external pressure did affect subjects’ decisional conflicts, and I observed that authoritative
pressure sometimes aided to keep subjects in their decisional conflicts. In the experiment, the subject
and experimenter are placed together in the same room whereas the learner is in an adjacent room as
is seen in (Fig. 13, Milgram 91). One of the ways the authoritative pressure manifests in Milgram’s
experiment is through the experimenter’s presence and prods. Pressure grows throughout the
progression of the experiment as the experimenter gives out "specific commands that serve as the
triggering mechanism" (Milgram 147) in which subjects are constantly told the same four phrases,
"Prod 1: Please continue … Prod 4: you have no other choice, you must go on," if they are in doubt
(Milgram 21). This particular pressure is applied to many subjects including Karen Dontz, a fortyyear-old
part housewife part nurse. She can be said to be in a decisional conflict as she is confused
about what to do in the experiment and "hesitates to press these [buttons]" (Milgram 77). However,
after the "[experimenter] instructs her to follow the procedure she does so without further comment"
which seems like the experimenter’s verbal pressure added to her ultimate decision to keep going in
her decisional conflict (Milgram 77). She continued the experiment as she was previously doing as
Bok’s theory would predict, but it is also evident that the pressure affected her decisions as the
experimenter’s instructions led to her completely following the experiment and thus obeying the
experimenter. Further, Experiment 7 is a variation of Milgram’s own procedure whereby the
experimenter is not physically in the same room and delivers his prods through a telephone, only to
enter the room once the subject has made their first refusal to continue the experiment (Milgram 62).
Yet, it is interesting to note that "although [the experimenter] had exhausted his power via telephone,
[he] could frequently force further obedience when he reappeared in the lab" meaning that the
experimenter’s presence alone affects subjects’ actions even after they have been perceived to out of
their decisional conflict (Milgram 62). Thus, it can be seen that having an external authoritative
pressure does help to keep subjects in their decisional conflict.
On the other hand, I observed that external authoritative pressure also helped subjects to snap
out of their decisional conflict. Let’s take the example of Mr. Renasleer, a thirty-two-year-old
industrial engineer who is showcased by Milgram in his book. Because he explicitly asks the
experimenter, "what do I do now?" we may say that he is in a decisional conflict as he is unsure of
how to proceed from here (Milgram 51). However, when the experimenter prods him to continue he
clearly has issues with his actions in the experiment when he says, "no, I can’t continue. I’m sorry."
(Milgram 48) It seems he realises the immoral implications of his actions and so does not want to
continue performing them and then terminates the experiment, by choice. A similar example is of
Gretchen Brandt, a thirty-one-year old medical technician who is also in a decisional conflict when
she asks the experimenter, "shall I continue?" expressing that she is having some sort of difficulty
being decisive in her actions (Milgram 84). She answers, "he has a heart condition. I’m sorry. He told
you that before," after one of the experimenter’s prods, meaning that her decision was in some sort of
response to the experimenter’s prod. (Milgram 84). What’s particularly interesting is that she only just
expresses her concern for the learner’s health at 210 volts, and maybe the experimenter provoked this
thought in her through the sudden increase in external pressure. So, it could be said that the external
authoritative pressure from the experimenter aided some subjects to come out of their decisional
conflicts and make a concrete decision to stop the experiment.
All in all, Milgram’s experiment tells us an important message about how we behave when
given commands in a high pressure situation. I conclude that Bok’s theory does apply to Milgram’s
experiment, but that we must also consider how external pressures like the authoritative pressure can
either keep a subject in their decisional conflict or help them to snap out of it. Though, I also believe
that an analysis of the responsibility of one’s actions is missing in Bok’s theory - perhaps people’s
actions are also influenced by whether or not they feel they are responsible for the consequences of
their actions.